# **Why Use Two's Complement To Represent Negative Number?**

This explanation based on 4 bits system. If you have 4 bits binary, you will have 16 possibles to represent number. In unsinged data types, we can represent from positive 0 to positive 15. The basic idea to create signed number by using the most significant bit like a sign bit. With 0 in the first bit, we have positive number; whereas, with 1 in the first bit, we have negative number.

There are 3 method to represent the signed number:

   1. **Signed magnitude:** This method will keep negative number is the same positive number except changing the first bit to represent positive or negative sign. For example, positive (+5) =0 101; negative (-5) = 1 101. However, the adding result with this method cannot be easy to convert to right answer. Therefore, the computer does not use this method to represent negative number.

   2. **1’s complement:** A negative number in this method is generated by flip all bits of positive number. For example, positive (+5) = 0 101; negative (-5) = 1 010. Adding result with this method can generate the carry bit out. We cannot throw away this bit. In fact, to get the right answer we need to add the result with carry bit. Moreover, this method also generate positive zero (+0) = 0 000 and negative (-0) = 1 111 which is not exceptable for software system. In fact, this method will generate 16 possible number +1 to +7; -1 to -7; +0 and -0.

   3. **2’s complement:** A negative number in this method is generated by flip the bit of positive number then adding 1. By adding 1, we also take negative zero out of this range. And we do not worry about carry out bit to get the right answer by using adder logic, because the carry out bit will be overflow (become the fifth bit in 4 bits system). Basically, this method will generate range from -8 to +7 with only one zero in this range. Moreover, with 2’s complement, storing a 4-bit number to an 8-bit register is easier by just repeating its most significant bit without any extra operation. For example, positive five in four bit (0101); negative five in four bit (1011); positive five in eight bit (0000 0101); and negative five in eight bit (1111 1011). Finally, with many advantages like above, we use 2’s complement to represent negative number.
